charts/intel-gpu-resource-driver/README.md, before:

# Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) Intel GPU Driver Helm Chart

## The chart installs GPU resource driver:

- [GPU](https://github.com/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/tree/main/doc/gpu/README.md)

More info: [Intel Resource Drivers for Kubernetes](https://github.com/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/tree/main)


## Installing the chart

```
helm install intel-gpu-resource-driver oci://ghcr.io/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/intel-gpu-resource-driver \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

## Uninstalling the chart
```
helm uninstall intel-gpu-resource-driver --namespace intel-gpu-resource-driver
```
(Optional) Delete the namespace:
```
kubectl delete ns intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

## Configuration
See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments:

```console
helm show values oci://ghcr.io/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

You may also run `helm show values` on this chart's dependencies for additional options.

| Key | Type | Default |
|-----|------|---------|
| image.repository | string | `intel` |
| image.name | string | `"intel-gpu-resource-driver"` |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |
| image.tag | string | `"v0.7.0"` |

Commit message:

Update GPU chart docs
Signed-off-by: Alexey Fomenko <alexey.fomenko@intel.com>

charts/intel-gpu-resource-driver/README.md, after:

# Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) Intel GPU Driver Helm Chart

## The chart installs GPU resource driver:

- [GPU](https://github.com/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/tree/main/doc/gpu/README.md)

More info: [Intel Resource Drivers for Kubernetes](https://github.com/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/tree/main)


## Installing the chart

> [!WARNING]  
> `--namespace` and `--create-namespace` Helm parameters should not be used. The chart creates a
> workspace with a security label that will not be created when using `--create-namespace`
> parameter, and when using `--namespace` option, Helm will ensure that the namespace exists before
> processing templates.

To change the target namespace from default `intel-gpu-resource-driver` to something else, use Helm
parameter to change the value:
```
helm install \
    --set namespace="new-namespace" \
    intel-gpu-resource-driver oci://ghcr.io/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

```
helm install intel-gpu-resource-driver oci://ghcr.io/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

## Uninstalling the chart
```
helm uninstall intel-gpu-resource-driver --namespace intel-gpu-resource-driver
```
(Optional) Delete the namespace:
```
kubectl delete ns intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

## Configuration
See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments:

```console
helm show values oci://ghcr.io/intel/intel-resource-drivers-for-kubernetes/intel-gpu-resource-driver
```

You may also run `helm show values` on this chart's dependencies for additional options.

| Key | Type | Default |
|-----|------|---------|
| image.repository | string | `intel` |
| image.name | string | `"intel-gpu-resource-driver"` |
| image.pullPolicy | string | `"IfNotPresent"` |
| image.tag | string | `"v0.7.0"` |
| namespace | string | "intel-gpu-resource-driver" |
